[RHACS] ROX15356 Documenting how to configure Azure token for ACS(CS) (#57625)
openshift/openshift-docs: operating/manage-user-access/configuring-user-authentication-on-rhacs.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="configuring-user-authentication-on-rhacs"]
= Configuring user authentication on {product-title-short}
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: user-authentication

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]

Ensure that {rh-rhacs-first} is connected to atleast one Identity Provider (IDP) for user authentication.

You can set up your own IDP right after provisioning using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`.
After the IDP authenticates you, {product-title-short} maps your account to roles that determine your permissions and access scope.

To authorize users, {product-title-short} relies on mapping rules that examine the values of specific claims like, `groups`, `email`, `userid` and `name` from either the user ID token or UserInfo endpoint response in OpenID Connect (OIDC).

If these details are absent, the mapping cannot succeed and the user does not get access to the required resources.

> Therefore, you need to ensure that the claims required to authorize users from your IDP, for example, `groups`, are included in the authentication response of your IDP to enable successful mapping.

Author: ok, in that case, we might have to place the Azure AD module, right after the "Claim mappings" section, WDYT? @ivan-degtiarenko @kcarmichael08

> Therefore, you need to ensure that the claims required to authorize users from your IDP, for example, `groups`, are included in the authentication response of your IDP to enable successful mapping.

Author: Would you be cherry-picking your PR to 4.0? @ivan-degtiarenko

For example, to connect an Azure Active Directory (AD) to {product-title-short} using OIDC, see xref:../../operating/manage-user-access/configuring-user-authentication-on-rhacs.adoc#connecting-azure-ad-to-rhacs-using-oidc_user-authentication[Connecting Azure AD to RHACS using OIDC].

[id="connecting-azure-ad-to-rhacs-using-oidc_{context}"]

> == Connecting Azure AD to {product-title-short} using OIDC

Reviewer: Here we say `using OIDC`, while below I see `for SAML applications` which are two different auth protocols.

Author: Updated title

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="configuring-user-authentication-on-rhacs"]
= Configuring user authentication on {product-title-short}
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: user-authentication

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]

> Verify that {rh-rhacs-first} is connected to atleast one Identity Provider (IDP) for user authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that {rh-rhacs-first} is connected to at least one Identity Provider (IDP) for user authentication.
```

Author: Done

Navigate to `Operating -> Managing user access`, and select the appropriate module to set up your own IDP immediately after provisioning.
After the IDP authenticates you, {product-title-short} maps your account to roles that determine your permissions and access scope.

//-----------to be deleted--------------------
////
You can set up your own IDP right after provisioning using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`.
////
//----------to be deleted---------------------

> To authorize users, {product-title-short} relies on mapping rules that examine the values of specific claims like, `groups`, `email`, `userid` and `name` from either the user ID token or UserInfo endpoint response in OpenID Connect (OIDC).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To authorize users, {product-title-short} relies on mapping rules that examine the values of specific claims like `groups`, `email`, `userid` and `name` from either the user ID token or the `UserInfo` endpoint response in OpenID Connect (OIDC).
```

Author: Done

If these details are absent, the mapping cannot succeed and the user does not get access to the required resources.
Therefore, you need to ensure that the claims required to authorize users from your IDP, for example, `groups`, are included in the authentication response of your IDP to enable successful mapping.

For example, to connect an Azure Active Directory (AD) to {product-title-short} using SSO configuration, see xref:../../operating/manage-user-access/configuring-user-authentication-on-rhacs.adoc#connecting-azure-ad-to-rhacs-using-sso-configuration_user-authentication[Connecting Azure AD to {product-title-short} using SSO configuration].

//----------to be deleted----------------
////
For example, to connect an Azure Active Directory (AD) to {product-title-short} using OIDC, see xref:../../operating/manage-user-access/configuring-user-authentication-on-rhacs.adoc#connecting-azure-ad-to-rhacs-using-oidc_user-authentication[Connecting Azure AD to {product-title-short} using OIDC].
////
//-----------to be deleted--------------------

[id="connecting-azure-ad-to-rhacs-using-sso-configuration_{context}"]
== Connecting Azure AD to {product-title-short} using SSO configuration

> 

Reviewer 2: delete blank line

Author: Done
